and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth
i'm your host sam dunning co-owner over
at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
simon delaney simon's the ceo over at
data bowl they help consumer-facing
brands generate high quality leads so
they can make more sales simple as that
simon welcome to the joseph how's it
going yeah good thanks sam
are you well
we're good on this then man we haven't
recorded a guest episode i was just
saying before hit record in a while so
glad to be jumping back into it and
we've got a fresh topic for this show
which i'm sure it's me massively useful
everyone tuning in where's myself
we're gonna be talking about how to
improve the quality of your leads as we
know lead to that the lifeboat for most
businesses right because without leads
there's no sales
so the tea up
conversation i'll start with a
rather probably simple question for you
maybe not
so much for others why is lead
generation so important
um well
two reasons i guess and one you've just
touched on which is um
it's making sales right
so um
yeah like some companies can you know if
you're an e-commerce site you might have
90 of your custom just by like visitors
straight on there and not be collecting
leads
um
but a lot of e-commerce companies lead
the data as well if they're not making
sales and they can keep in touch with
the prospects um and if you're not on
the e-commerce site i mean i don't know
how else you grow really it's uh you
know
leads are definitely what you need and
whether that's telephone numbers and
personal details or email addresses or
whatever it is
um so that's the first thing but the
second thing
is sort of more pertinent to the age
that we live in which is
first party data is absolutely key
so you know the depth of the cookie on
things like that google's implementing
you can see the way apple's going with
the way people's personal data is being
dealt with
and so if you are
relying on data in any way which i would
say 99.99
of companies are
um it's absolutely imperative that you
start collecting first party data not
just of your customers but of your
prospects as well
um
and that's why it's so important
got it so can we just have a quick
summary of what first party data really
means
yeah well
you know what it's one of these things
where people go like this zero party
data third party data first party data
yeah um some other type of data i don't
know what i'm talking about is people's
personal information and they've given
you consent to contact them via whatever
channel it is they want so whether
that's
give them a call or email them or sms
them or whatsapp them whatever
so we're talking about a person putting
their hand up and saying i want you sam
dunning or whoever it is
to contact me about your products or
service got it okay so you mentioned an
interesting point so point split
splitting that into two angles i guess
that without leads there's there's no
sales or without sales you need leads to
flow you mentioned data as being part of
that so are you talking about
kind of leads aren't just good for
perhaps immediate or quite short term
sales and getting deals over the line
but also kind of harvesting that data so
we're talking about things like maybe
putting them into email lists or nurture
campaigns over time as well is that what
you mean as well
yeah exactly so
um leads i suppose can form
um
two components of your marketing or
sales so one is exactly like you said
you
get a lead in
um and you typically have this when it's
telephone numbers and they're going to a
call center or a company's calling them
um
and you call them immediately as fast as
you can everyone knows the key right
like speed to lead is just 100 important
maybe not as much with email but with
telephone numbers if you're calling them
is
um
and the second is if you're collecting
email addresses um yeah put them into a
nurturing funnel could be the same with
sms could really be the same with
telephone numbers if you've got like a
dialing cycle you can put people in
um
but yeah because the a person's data is
so hard to come by like either can be
expensive and whether that's time spent
writing seo articles or
money spent on like facebook or google
or whatever
sure it's an absolute travesty
if you're not nurturing
or adding value or contacting that
prospect over a long period of time you
can't just treat it as like a one-hit
wonder not anymore people used to and
they still do i'd say you know ninety
percent of companies still do i just
think differently about it which is
um
a person in their data of becoming
blurred is like indistinguishable so you
know the devices that we have we're
always on
um
and everybody in the world is like this
you've sort of got to treat it in the
same way which is
um you know how would you what would you
do if a person kept walking to your shop
or
you know you kept seeing someone like
walking down the street would you stop
saying hello to them after a while just
because they're not giving you some
money it's just you know think of it in
that way
yeah nice nice analogy so
you mentioned it just now but speed to
lead really really important is there
and you might not know the answers to
this i might not know is is there an
ultimate speed to lead time in in your
opinion for example if someone fills out
a form on our website or a landing page
that you think that companies should be
calling them or contacting them within
that you've seen
i think there was a study done that was
quite a long time ago um
i think it was 2011 it might be 2009 um
where uh i think it's from a university
as well it's like an mit study someone
went into where they showed the length
of time that a lead was contacted um
and then what the conversion rates were
on the back of it so after five minutes
and that was the first increment that
they worked on was five minutes so we
don't even know what like zero to one is
um the sales dropped the potential to
get a sale dropped by nearly i'd have to
dig this out yeah i can send it to you
and you can link it to this yeah sure um
it's something like 50 is huge yeah um
an analogy that i use quite often on
like and i'll put this on linkedin i
know you do similar things um you get a
lot more viewers than i do so i might
get three people look at it but um
is imagine you walk into a shoe shop
and you see a pair of shoes
you pick it up and you've got like a
question about it and they like um
we'll just go with my trousers whatever
the question is how long are you gonna
wait
for a shop assistant to come over to
help you so imagine you just stood there
looking around no one's there
i mean for me personally i'd
probably be you know maybe five minutes
and i just walk out
i might go to the shoe shop next door or
wherever it is i probably wouldn't go
back and i'd probably tell my friends
about it as well
um
leads up you know
in legion they might not tell her
friends about it um but they are gonna
sort of just ignore it because people
forget if you fill a form in
and it's all very quick right in the
media and that's the whole point of
forms is that they're meant to be like
relatively easy to fill in if you don't
contact them
when they've just filled that in
i can guarantee you they're going to
forget that they've even done it
i mean you've done this right i do all
the time
we've got clients all over the world and
so i get people like phil forming for
databall in australia like even
yesterday i think there was one
um i'll ring them or someone one of the
sales guys will ring them the next day
and they've forgotten they've even done
it and they'd be like who well you
remember you asked for a demo and they
were oh i think so yeah
yeah yeah yeah
it's just really important and i suppose
the other thing is as well that these
these prospects are probably filling in
the form of a couple other competitors
as well right because
not always but it's quite often you
speak to them they're saying that we're
comparing two or three companies
so i guess that's where speed really
comes into play and like you said with
the shoe shop experience if
it doesn't matter what it is if you're
waiting around ages to speak to a clerk
to get help with a an item and they
don't it probably leaves quite a sour
taste in your mouth for some people
so it could kind of ruin your chances of
of them and then they'll talk to their
friends and so on and so on so
yeah a lot of a lot of negatives really
from from not responding to leads quick
there's also uh in addition to that
study that i spoke about we've um
well i used to be doing lead gen before
we went into software
um
we used to get web hooks back or um like
ftp drops of the
dispositions from the call center and we
found a direct correlation with the
speed that they were contacted so we
started to incentivize some of the call
centers and stuff that we work with to
actually contact leads quicker and you
we had this thing where we could
override the dialing cycle had all the
data dropped in it so
depend on the intent behind the lead so
like a premium lead would
bypass everything and get called
immediately just massively boosted the
conversion rates that's a great move
that's a great move cool um and i don't
want to go into this too much but when
it comes to are there any basics that we
need to be aware of because i know
you're big on this simon when it comes
to kind of storing leads securely and
so whether they kind of give us a call
and then we add them to our crm whether
they come through a website inquiry form
whatever means are there just a couple
basics that we need to consider just to
make sure we're kind of following best
practices in terms of gdpr and storage
and not doing anything i suppose
irresponsible with customer data
yeah i mean
it depends what sort of data we're
talking about right there's slight
differences with b2b data and b2c but
let's talk about b2c because um that's
where you have to be more careful so if
you apply that to b2b you can't go wrong
anyway um
so you'll see a lot of people sending
personal data via email um either like
they're buying leads and sending it
someone else or sending it to a sales
person it's just a big no no don't do it
um it needs to be like in an ftp or in a
secure place that can be accessed by
that person with a password and whatever
else if you're gonna send it via email
um you see people do stuff like drop it
on google sheets that's shared amongst
several people again i wouldn't do that
um
you will also see people send um
data to other people on sms's
just don't do it and
you'll see people send data via get apis
which is
um effectively like a
a url that contains all the personal
details of someone
and um it keeps the connection open on
whatever the api is sending it to but
it's really easy to hack and it leaves
traces on your browser history of all
those people's personal details
um so yeah it's not a great move to do
and in terms of the storage um yeah you
need somewhere secure um so i know aws
rackspace all these sort of companies
can uh you know secure your data
gotcha gotcha nice one okay so moving on
what are what are some of the some of
the biggest mistakes some of the biggest
blunders that you've seen simon that we
need to steer clear of when it comes to
lead gen lead generation
um
so one is mistaking consent for intent
and this is where a lot of companies
fall down so just because someone's
consented for you to contact them
doesn't mean there's actually like
they've got very much intent behind it
because you can collect leads really
easily right like i know by a co-sponsor
people do like a load of privacy ops and
stuff and 90 of the time the person
who's become a lead won't even know that
you have their data so it's legally
compliant
which is just a weird thing anyway that
probably needs looking into
um
but that person has zero intent so if
you go in like all gung-ho guns blazing
i'm gonna get a sale
out this punk
person um it's probably gonna backfire
right because uh so you need to um
whatever the sort of intent is is how
you need to approach the the individual
um and so you know if they're slow and
steady
um for someone who's got like very
little knowledge and potentially qualify
them more might be the the best route
which is via emails you could ask some
questions
um do something like that and obviously
if it's a high intent like purchasing
intent go for the sale
gotcha so understanding kind of i
suppose how far along they are down the
sales process right so how yeah how
aware they are of your brand and
how keen they are to actually discuss
your product or service or whatever
you've got to offer yeah and the other
one would be the sort of not trying to
build a relationship so it came back to
the
point we were discussing earlier about
um
uh not nurturing leads
so people you know if they either can't
get a sale or they're just like very
gung-ho with it
in reality this person is a lead for a
reason they're not ready to purchase yet
so um you know you need to work on that
relationship so even if it takes six
months
um there's no point in dropping that
because you know it could be they
convert in six months and depending on
what the cpa of your product is even if
it's a low ticket item so um you know
20 pounds
um but if it's a high ticket like a
thousand pounds why wouldn't you wait
six months
um
sorry con
yes on on nurturing i think that's it's
quite an interesting quite a broad topic
because everyone's probably got a
different approach as in
some people might some business might
get a lead come in maybe the sales rep
tries them for
maybe they have an initial conversation
maybe they agree to set up a secondary
call
maybe that never happens the customer
drops off they sell rise them again over
the space of let's say another week gets
chucked in the crm forgotten about
um or perhaps they run a
classic email sequence kind of
do you still need help with this day one
day three
are you stuck under a bridge or have you
been kidnapped by aliens or do you still
just want to discuss the project maybe
day five um should i close your forehead
or did you still want to discuss this
that's that's a massively fast-forwarded
email sequence but that's all that could
come into my head at the time um but are
there any better ways that you've seen
companies approach nurturing leads that
perhaps aren't contactable initially but
then they've had success over time
because they followed this this kind of
process
well i think there's a few things that
you can do so number one the first thing
to think is
add value
so it's a bit like in b2b right if you
follow um
the way that you and i look at b2b lead
generation which i think is kind of
similar which is why we're on this
podcast um
as we create podcasts and you know
distribute them with things um
what we're trying to do is actually add
massive value right
before we even know whether someone
could be a customer anything it's just
adding like massive value anyway
so
the first like thing i think about with
lead nurturing is
you've got to think how you can add
value the second thing is it needs to be
far more conversational
so
rather than exactly like the sequence
you gave which is basically look at me
look at me look at me become a sale
um
stop talking about yourself no one gives
two shits about you as in the company
all they care about is themselves
and what's keeping them awake at night
and what you've got to figure out is how
can you solve that problem because the
minute you hone in on that
um
you know they'll start to
take attention
um
the other thing is that um people don't
segment the data either they you know
they'll have like a one-size-fits-all
nurturing funnel a bit like what you
mentioned
um
what we found works far better is you
don't have to go like mad with it right
so create a thousand different
avatars or profiles whatever people call
them
um but you know you could stretch it to
maybe five and what you're trying to do
is
um talk about the things that are
relevant to them so to give you like a
quick example it isn't btc b2b so we um
internally have our own like three-tier
nurturing funnel so be like brands
lead generators
um
and
uh
agencies i think is the other i can't
remember but yeah i think it's those
three and so when we send out our
nurturing emails which we just do weekly
and we'll put stuff like links to the
blog we'll do different like youtube
videos and whatever else
um we're just really trying to hone in
on the things that we think are relevant
to those particular categories
and so once you start doing that you can
actually put people into their
categories that's how you start this
like process of getting close to what's
keeping them awake at night
um
the other is
two other quick points one is a data
gathering so
um
an example would be on the email that we
send out where we don't know what
category someone is we just put a button
that says what are you
um it'll be you know brand agency lead
generator they can just click it and say
thanks for letting me know but we then
add that to that particular email as and
they get dropped in that category but
you can start collecting anything so a
classic example would be someone's come
in for a test driver they've dropped a
pro a brochure for like a mercedes thing
so we know that they're interested in
mercedes but we don't know which car so
the first thing we could ask them is
like what's your favorite color cast you
could list six colors like red black
silver whatever and then use that as a
data point what's your um what style of
car would you prefer sports family
saloon you know truck whatever it is and
just keep adding this information so
you're not really then going for the
sale you're more just like it's almost
like a quiz right you're finding out
information from them and then you can
start to use to really hone in on them
the stuff that's uh gonna resonate with
them and the other point is um
don't just keep it to one channel so
it's a sort of mistake that people make
where they'll just email people or
whatever so if that's all you've got
it's fine right like there's not really
much else you could do other than as
part of that
nurturing sequence you could also ask
them for additional data but imagine if
you then had the whatsapp
um so you were in contact with them and
that same person
was in contact with mercedes via
whatsapp and they you knew they were
like a mercedes fan
you knew what car they wanted they knew
efting it and now you've got like a
direct one-to-one conversation that you
could build with them whether that's sms
or even whether it's postal whatever the
method is don't just stick to one
channel that's what i'd say
yeah yeah yeah big big fan of the
multi-channel approach
great point there's there could be many
people that you keep keep on to via
email but they just don't enjoy doing
email so if you try them like you say
whether that's text whether that's
phone call whether that's whatsapp
whether that's linkedin whatever channel
so if one if one's clearly not working
and then move to another i'll move to a
couple and see which which resonates
with them really like the point on um so
interrupt i really like the point on
adding value
chap called really good sales training
that's been on the podcast a long time
ago called josh braun calls it giving
deposits
so like you say rather than just every
email every customer interaction phone
call is all me me me this is my product
this is how great we are just giving
deposits sometimes even without a call
to action so just saying that i thought
this article might be of use so i
thought this podcast episode was it
would be of use or this blog or whatever
it is
um
over time there that's really going to
differentiate you from all these other
sales reps that are just trying to pitch
them they're actually thinking well this
person's giving me something that's
actually useful and chances are i'll
come back to you right
yeah i mean what this stuff that we're
discussing you know i'd say
90 of companies in the uk don't do so if
you start doing it and you do it well
you're literally going to be head and
shoulders above everyone else in terms
of being able to build relationships
with the leads that you generate um just
two other quick points on um the sort of
mistakes i see people make so another
one is not adding validation to the form
or validation on the back end and that
just works in two ways so if it's like
winky wanky leads like the ones we were
talking about where they just like opted
in you get a load of like incorrect
details and mickey mouse details and
everything else
um so you just want to validate the hell
out of it um before you start doing
anything with it but where the forms on
your website or if it's a landing page
or something
you tend not to get as much mickey mouse
stuff but what is
like a massive problem is incorrectly
typed details
so if someone you know all they need to
do is miss a single character out of the
email address all they need is to type
one digit in their phone number wrong
and depending on what your product is
and if it's a like high purchasing
intent lead that could be thousands of
pounds down the drain literally because
you don't have validation on your form
so
um
it's what i would 100 recommend doing
validate you don't i wouldn't worry
about first name last name unless you
really want to get rid of like mickey
mouse stuff and you can put some um like
condition sets behind it and you know
reject uh swear words and stuff like
that um but telephone numbers email
addresses
postal addresses
just get it validated in real time as
the person's typing them in and when you
flash the warning up um
don't just put you know incorrect or
something you can just be like a bit
nicer about it and say you know it looks
like you've typed the wrong telephone
number in please double check it
um
so that's one point the other quick
point is not using
conversion principles on either landing
pages or websites where you're going to
be collecting someone's personal details
and this is stuff like really strong
nice headline that gives immediately the
benefit that you give or the problem
that you solve
some bullet points that really succinct
that can just draw the person's eye
straight into it they know exactly what
you're doing how you're going to help
them
a strong cta headline above the form
keep the form as simple as possible so
it could either be multi-step if you're
trying to collect quite a lot of details
but nicely designed
um the submit button don't ever put
submit i i literally can't tell you the
number of websites that go on there and
like oh my god they've put submit
um put something that's actually like
gonna happen when they fill the form and
you know like
switch now or you know whatever they did
whatever it is like
get your free thing now whatever i don't
know what the products is um always put
testimonials above the fold it just acts
like an immediate attraction to anyone
coming in that gives a great social
validation and also put any um like
brands that you work with so if you are
a brand obviously it can be difficult to
put that so you can do stuff like as
seen on bbc or bbv6 advertised as seen
on itv as seen on um you know financial
times whatever the details are
and if you're a lead generator or doing
anything else um where you're sort of uh
a middleman i guess you can just put the
brands of the products that you're
selling so like an example is a guy
selling boilers who was just generating
leads and selling them on to
um or boiler insurance and selling them
on to
a bunch of insurers he can just put the
brands of the boilers that he you know
he knows are going to get sold to them
and it just gives that it's like an
extra validation
um
so those things if you do all of those
and do them well um
you'll see your conversion rates rocket
on your forms
some great pointers some really good
point especially on the the landing page
breakdown as there's so many that just
don't follow those basics so that's
really really useful um
interesting point about mickey mouse
leads as well
in terms of kind of like you say whether
they come for a co-sponsor form or
whether there's people signing up to a
webinar or people that just want to get
access to an ebook or a white paper that
will just chuck in any old details just
to get past the email and name gate and
then those will come in and you'll
probably get a
fairly sizable percentage they've just
put mickey mouse info just to get the
the goody that's behind the gate yeah
and especially if you're driving um paid
traffic it can be really tough and it's
always
a conundrum whether to
like get rid of them because
um you know if you start putting
stuff on like the
name or someone type scum thorp in for
example you need to really make sure
you've got like the rules correct with
swear words and stuff like that that
you're looking at
yeah yeah yeah it's it's a tricky one to
balance i guess especially with
downloadable things because you've got
to kind of really think is is the value
there that someone's going to give you
their correct info
um in terms of the actual reward that
they get for giving you their data so
it's something you've got to balance all
right with all these these best
practices in mind
how can we take all this and how can we
start improving
the
quality of the leads that we're actually
generating that we're working ourselves
or that we're giving ourselves to you
so
um
i guess it sort of comes back to
some of the stuff that we were saying
people do wrong um
but a big one for me is you need to
create like
high intent by behind whatever your
um
like desire is with the leads
um so even if it's stuff like
you know you just want the email
newsletter signups
given
you know all the details of the
newsletter make sure they're going to be
engaged people might think well i'm
going to collect less leads well tell me
what the open rate of your lead
emails are so you'll say that's when i
go 20
you're like okay so on average it's 20
you're like okay so
like 80 of the people aren't bothered
like they literally what's the point in
sending emails to them if you break down
the ones that haven't opened an email in
six months how many are there they'll be
like oh it's over half my database 60 of
it you're like okay well imagine you got
really high intent at the beginning
where you explained you know
really clearly what the benefits of your
newsletter was everything else imagine
you started getting open rates of 70 80
and people don't think that's possible
right genuinely i i think a lot of
people i speak to don't think it's
possible i get we get 70 open rates on
our emails
like we said i send an email out or um
no i don't the marketing team do i
sometimes do i actually do this tuesday
got a 70 open rate and it's purely
because when the people are signing up
they're signing up because they want to
there's no you know they know exactly
what they're going to get they know
what's going to involve they know the
information that they're going to
be receiving
and we try to add value and everything
else
um
and if you're
trying to like generate telephone
numbers to um call to convert um you
know you've got to go high buying intent
you can get like leads that convert one
percent way just buying a telephone
number and bringing this person that
doesn't even know you're going to be
calling them i can guarantee you
spending loads of money on your sales
team your sales team is going to be
demoralized going to be making like one
sale every three hours
you're going to have a massive churn
rate of staff you're going to have to be
hiring 50 of the staff every month half
them will leave when they get a paycheck
you have to get the other half in
you have a load of pissed off contacts
that are all going to tell people i've
been called by x you know they don't
treat people's data don't know where
they got it from you could be dealing
with endless complaints why'd you solve
all that problem start getting high
purchasing intent leads
qualify the lead as part of the lead
generation process not part of the sales
team let sales people sell give them
leads that actually convert
yeah yeah
um so that'd be around intense
um all good points
yeah uh
some others would be like adding
validation like we discussed which is a
mistake that we see and people add
nurture leads effectively which is again
we've sort of covered
um
i think you need
speeds contact which again we covered um
is really important
um
and another is
and it's more of a philosophy rather
than a sort of act that you can take
but if you start to see people's data as
um like real people so you know which it
is as long as you've got rid of the fake
ones
you really start to switch how you think
about contact than the messaging that
you use how you position your products
and your service it comes back to this
thing of adding value because it's
really easy just to contact data right
and not really add value and just try
and get sales you just see it like
tiddlywinks doesn't really matter you
can just take it whatever
when you start seeing it as real people
that sat there in their houses walking
down the street at work doing you know
like you and i sat on a podcast whatever
how are you actually going to engage
those people what is it you're going to
do to make them take notice
and that's really what i think people
need to think about with their lead
generation
great points yeah like you said we've
been going steadily through these
throughout the throughout the show so
far um but yeah thinking of leads as
actual people is a great point because i
know early in my sales career and i'm
sure i've been guilty of it when i've
kind of been short of time and whatever
not thinking of leaders people and what
probably some of my mistakes that
definitely don't do if you're tuning in
this is kind of
perhaps the month's going a bit slow
perhaps you need to hit a target and
you're just contacting leads and
just doing the usual spiel really
whether you're following up an email
whether it's cool
name hope you're well
doesn't mean anything um
just seeing if we can get this over the
line or just seeing if you're ready to
buy um just seeing how you're doing with
a deal or how we're progressing or when
makes sense to us to pick up
it's just pointless really it's it's
probably just going to piss the customer
off especially if you keep doing it um
doesn't really add any value to either
side and it's just just a kind of
nothing email nothing message um whereas
like you say if you actually give them
something of interest or share a genuine
insight or share something that's going
to help them get their job done better
although you might find entertaining or
interesting it gives you like you say
the chance to differentiate yourself
rather than just sending a generic sales
message that
is pointless i guess
and the thing is it's easy right like
that's the whole point is like it
data isn't going to convert is easy to
gather and buy
and collect
sending emails that just aren't going to
resonate with anyone or easy to send you
just write anything you're not really
digging into it um
and ultimately it is difficult if you're
really gonna start
making your lead generation like rocket
um
you know it's a bit like doing stuff
on linkedin it's just you know you've
got to be consistent you've got to try
and add value you're not always going to
get it right but you need to like try
different things um
but ultimately um you know if you're
adding value
and
you're respecting the person you you
will do well
awesome awesome great way to end simon
so on that note i want to thank you very
much for coming on the show really
enjoyed the chat yeah thank you
no worries and do tell us more about how
people can learn from you how they can
connect with you and the best way to get
in touch with your business
yeah sure so simon databall.com is my
email address um
you can go to the website databall.com
or check out any of my stuff on linkedin
i guess you can add to the three people
that like it on a consistent basis
there we go we'll put all of that over
in the the show episodes notes which
will be available at
businessgrowth.marketing
cheers again simon as always if you
enjoyed today's show hit that subscribe
button we interview business leaders
each and every week to share actionable
marketing and business growth tips um
and sales tips and with that we should
catch you on the next one